Add Health articles (#3174)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Beatmapping/Health/en.md

---
tags:
- HP
- Health Drain
- HP Drain
- Passive Drain
- Drain
---

# Health

Health or more commonly known as *HP*, is the value that decides if a player has failed or passed a [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmaps). Health can be seen in the health bar which updates as a beatmap progresses. Health is largely determined by the HP difficulty setting, which is set by the mapper of a beatmap.

> The HP difficulty settting controls how heavily a player is penalized for missing notes and how much health is gained back by accurately hitting [hit objects](/wiki/Hit_Objects). HP values range from HP0 to HP10, where HP10 is the highest and most punishing setting and HP0 the most forgiving. On HP10 the health drains rapidly and a single miss may be enough to fail a player, whereas on HP0 multiple combos can be missed before failing a player. The HP difficulty setting can be changed alongside other difficulty settings in the [Beatmap Editor](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor). Doing this will change a Ranked beatmap's status to unranked and will erase all local scores on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HP difficulty settting controls how heavily a player is penalized for missing notes and how much health is gained back by accurately hitting [hit objects](/wiki/Hit_Objects). HP values range from HP0 to HP10, where HP10 is the highest and most punishing setting while HP0 is the most forgiving. On HP10, health drains rapidly and a single miss may be enough to fail the player. On HP0, multiple combos can be missed before the player fails. The HP difficulty setting can be changed alongside other difficulty settings in the [Beatmap Editor](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor). Doing this will change a Ranked beatmap's status to unranked and will erase all local scores on it.
```

> The HP difficulty settting controls how heavily a player is penalized for missing notes and how much health is gained back by accurately hitting [hit objects](/wiki/Hit_Objects). HP values range from HP0 to HP10, where HP10 is the highest and most punishing setting and HP0 the most forgiving. On HP10 the health drains rapidly and a single miss may be enough to fail a player, whereas on HP0 multiple combos can be missed before failing a player. The HP difficulty setting can be changed alongside other difficulty settings in the [Beatmap Editor](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor). Doing this will change a Ranked beatmap's status to unranked and will erase all local scores on it.

Reviewer: > Doing this will change a Ranked beatmap's status to unranked and will erase all local scores on it.

Wouldn't changing anything in the beatmap and saving it locally erase all local scores for that beatmap? If so, it seems strange to me for why this article says this. Maybe put it in the beatmap editor article instead or make sure that all articles relating to the beatmap editor/song settings also has this too?

Author: agree, ill remove for now and make a reminder to put it in the beatmap editor article when i get to that

> ## Health drain

Reviewer: I think this section should be its own article/stub. It seems to be talking more about the gameplay mechanics of health, so I don't think it fits well in this article.

Author: I've thought about it for a bit and come to the conclusion that multiple sections here should be split up into their own thing to keep articles focused. I've gone ahead and tried to do that with my next commit

Health recovery:

- Getting 'Great' or 'Good' on small/large notes.

Health loss:

- Getting 'Miss' or 'Bad' on small/large notes.
- Not completing Dendens.
- Not completing Shakers.

No effect:

- Doing drumrolls.
- Ignoring drumrolls.
- Completing Dendens.
- Completing Shakers.

_(Note: It is entirely possible for a beatmap to never pass by design due to it only containing drumrolls and/or dendens/shakers.)_

## osu!catch

In osu!standard health will decrease at a steady rate called [health drain](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health_drain), but can be replenished by catching fruits and drops.

Score bursts will appear after catching fruit, changing score and health values depending on the hit object caught. The player also receives larger boosts if he catches the end of a combo resulting in a [geki](#geki). Missing fruit will drain health instead. Bananas can be ignored with no health penalty. For an overview of health recovery and health loss see below:

Health recovery:

- Collecting any fruits, juice drops, or bananas.

Health loss:

- Health drain.
- Missing fruits or juice drops.

Health reserved:

- Break time.

## osu!mania

> In osu!mania only hit objects will affect the health bar, as [health drain](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health_drain) is disabled.

Reviewer 2: Note: health drain is not disabled in lazer.

Author: It makes no sense to start detailing lazer when it is unfinished. will require too much upkeep as lazer is changed

Reviewer 3: i'd also expect game mechanics on ranked maps to eventually match osu stable
